Blog on authenticate on GCP using OIDC and deploy on GKE using kapp (#481)
k14s/k14s.io: site/content/blog/kapp_deploy_oidc_gke.md

---
title: "kapp deploy on GCP using keyless authentication(OIDC)"
slug: kapp-deploy-oidc-gke
date: 2022-07-14
author: Yash Sethiya
excerpt: "Use github action OIDC token to authenticate on GCP and deploy using kapp on GKE"
image: /img/logo.svg
tags: ['kapp', 'oidc', 'keyless-authentication']
---

### Who

This article can be helpful for anyone who wants to create the Github Action workflow to authenticate with GCP and how to deploy Kubernetes manifest on GKE using kapp. 

### Why

Traditionally, authenticating from GitHub Actions to Google Cloud required exporting and storing a long-lived JSON service account key, turning an identity management problem into a secrets management problem. 

But now, with GitHub's introduction of OIDC tokens into GitHub Actions Workflows, you can authenticate from GitHub Actions to Google Cloud using OIDC (Workload Identity Federation), removing the need to export a long-lived JSON service account key.

### Benefits

> By updating workflows to use OIDC tokens, we can adopt the following good security practices:

Author: By updating workflows to use OIDC tokens, we can adopt the following good security practices:
```suggestion
By updating workflows to use OIDC tokens, we can adopt the recommended good security practices:
```
Are you suggesting this?

> By updating workflows to use OIDC tokens, we can adopt the following good security practices:

Author: ```suggestion
By updating workflows to use OIDC tokens, we can adopt the recommended security practices:
```
or something like this?
